An Examination of the Connection Between Digital Humanities and the Field of English

   The article, *What Is Digital Humanities and What’s It Doing in English Departments?*, by Matthew Kirschenbaum revolves around the idea of discovering the field of Digital Humanities, how the field can be explored and the connections it has with English departments. He identifies that there are already several essays that cover this broad topic, and in his introduction, writes, “It’s tempting to say that whoever asks the question has not gone looking very hard for an answer” (Kirschenbaum). Arguments made by Kirshenbaum also tie Digital Humanities to English, more than any other department. In support of this work, it wil be broken down into its core arguments.

   Each of the points put forth by Kirschenbaum are easy to support. Firstly, as a rapidly expanding field of study for many years now, The definition of digital humanities is continuously evolving. This has prompted several authors to dig into the subject, including Willard McCarthy, Patrik Svensson and several others identified by Kirschenbaum. There is a large group of authors writing papers surrounding the field, and this practice is, as described by Kirschenbaum, “...probably more rooted in English than any other departmental home” (Kirschenbaum). Other umbrella departments such as the Sciences or Mathematics do see many papers written regularly, often concerning new discoveries, applications or ideas. These tend to be less reflective than the average humanities essay.

   An interesting section at the end of Kirschenbaum's essay can be found under the *Notes* subheading. It is here that Kirschenbaum acknowledges that the work does carry a disciplinary bias. He essentially describes his work as an opinion piece here, to clear up any misconceptions. Kirschenbaum advises readers to look to the work of aforementioned Patrik Svensson to answer the first question he poses in the title of this essay, 'What is Digital Humanities.' Regardless of bias, Matt Kirschenbaum's essay still attempts to dig into the field of Humanities and find connections.

   The field involves a great deal of scholarly practices. In fact, Kirschenbaum describes in his work how many individual scholars now “...self-identify as digital humanists, or Dhers” (Kirschenbaum). This change has come about directly from the increasing popularity of the field of Digital Humanities. While humanistic work has been around for a considerable amount of time, the tools and protocols of the field are evolving. In the essay *Humanisitic Theory and Digital Scholarship*, Johanna Drucker asks if the Humanities has “...had any impact on the digital environment” (Drucker). In this essay, the circumstances in which humanistic theories cross digital computation are examined. While not directly examining the evolution of the field, Drucker instead attempts to find the conventions and ideologies which link the two. As a branch of the field of humanities, Digital Humanities is just as concerned with scholarship.

   Finally, Kirschenbaum gets around to his answer for the second question posed at the beginning of his essay. Initially he explains that text has been the easiest form of media for computers to manipulate and process. Supporting this, he uses examples of hypertext, electronic literature and archives, all made possible through the use of computers. He also briefly mentions the “...openness of English departments to cultural studies, where computers and other objects of digital material culture become the centerpiece of analysis” (Kirschenbaum). This point connects to another article collected in the same journal, by Tara McPherson, *Why Are the Digital Humanities So White? or Thinking the Histories of Race and Computation*. In her essay, McPherson, ultimately concludes that “computers are themselves encoders of culture,” (McPherson) meaning that they are used to encode or collect and store, most importantly to her essay, aspects of our culture. This ties back in with Kirschenbaum's explanation of computers as objects of digital culture.

   Kirschenbaum's thesis is that “...digital humanities has accumulated a robust professional apparatus that is probably more rooted in English than any other departmental home” (Kirschenbaum). He did not present a concrete argument, but instead left room for interpretation. He uses words such as 'probably' and 'generally' in his statements. Which suggests that he is leaving room for future scholars to tackle similar questions. As a result, this article comes off as collaborative, adding to the field of Digital Humanities. To contrast, scientific papers often need to avoid such language, presenting themselves as fact, with lieelt room left for interpretation. Kirschenbaum's essay is written in a manner similar to what one might find in other writings from an English Department, which is no surprise, as he is an Associate Professor of English at the University of Maryland. His paper is widely regarded as an important work for the field of Digital Humanities, so he himself represents another connection between the fields.
